.TH COINST-UPGRADES 1

.SH NAME
coinst-upgrades \- finding upgrade issues between to versions of a
Debian distribution

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B coinst-upgrades
.RI [\| options \|]
.BI -o " file"
.I control-file1 control-file2

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B coinst-upgrades
takes as input two Debian control files corresponding to two versions
of a Debian repository and output a report listing all packages that
coult be installed together in the initial version of the repository
.RI "(specified by " control-file1 )
and that can no longer be installed together in the final version of
the repository
.RI "(specified by " control-file2 ),
and explaining why they can no longer be installed together.

If the control files are compressed, they will be automatically
uncompressed by the tool.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-\^\-break " sets"
Specify that some packages does not have to be compatible any longer
and that the corresponding issue should be omitted from the report.
The argument
.I sets
is a comma-separated list of sets of packages. Each set is either a
list of binary package names separated by a vertical bar symbol |, or
a wildcard\~_ standing for any package.
We explain this option through examples.
You can write
.BI \-\^\-break " libjpeg62-dev"
to state that package
.I libjpeg62-dev
does not have to remain installable.
But it is usually better to indicate that the package should remain
installable but that it is fine if it is no longer installable with
some other packages:
.B \-\^\-break
.IR libjpeg62-dev,_ .
You can be even more precise and specify that two given packages can
become incompatible, but that any other incompatibility should be
reported:
.B \-\^\-break
.IR parallel,moreutils .
Finally, you can use the vertical bar symbol to factorize several sets
of packages:
.B \-\^\-break
.I 'unoconv,python-uno|docvert-libreoffice'
means that package
.I unoconv
does not have to remain installable together with
.I python-uno
nor
.IR docvert-libreoffice .

.TP
.BI \-\^\-debug " name"
Activate debug option
.IR name .
Use
.B \-\^\-debug help
to list available debug options.

.TP
.BR \-help ", " \-\^\-help
Print a usage message  briefly  summarizing  the command-line options.

.TP
.BI \-o " file"
Write the report to this file.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-popcon " file"
Use popcon data from this file to order issues.

.SH AUTHOR
Coinst-upgrades has been written by Jérôme Vouillon.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dot (1)
.br
The tool Web page:
.RB < http://coinst.irill.org/upgrades >.
