.TH COMIGRATE 1

.SH NAME
comigrate \- managing package migrations from Debian
.IR sid " to " testing

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B comigrate
.RI [\| options \|]
.RB [\| \-\^\-heidi
.IR file \]
.RB [\| \-\^\-hints
.IR file \]
.br
.B comigrate
.RI [\| options \|]
.B \-\^\-update
.br
.B comigrate
.RI [\| options \|]
.BI \-\^\-migrate " package"
.br
.B comigrate
.RI [\| options \|]
.B \-\^\-equivocal
.br
.B comigrate
.RI [\| options \|]
.BI \-\^\-excuses " file"
.RB [\| \-\^\-svg \|]
.br
.B comigrate
.RI [\| options \|]
.BI \-\^\-explain " dir"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B comigrate
is a tool designed to manage the migration of packages
from Debian
.IR sid " to " testing .
It can be used in different ways. First,
it can compute which packages can migrate into testing; it can output
either an
.I HeidiResult
file listing the updated contents of
testing, or a set of hints that can be fed to
.I Britney
to help it perform the migration. Second, it can output detailed
reports of what prevents packages from migrating. Last, it can be used
to interactively troubleshoot the migration of a given package.

Unless an alternative command is given,
.B comigrate
will perform package migration and output the corresponding
.I HeidiResult
file at the location indicated in the configuration file.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS Commands

The default behavior of
.B comigrate
is to compute which packages can migrate from
.IR sid " to " testing .
This behavior can be overriden by the options below.

.TP
.B \-\^\-equivocal
Output the set of packages that can migrate without making any package
non-installable but that will make it impossible to install some set
of packages together (package co-installability would no be preserved).
This makes it possible to find the packages that would be allowed to
migrate when using the
.B \-\^\-inst
option (preserving only package installability), but that could
nonetheless be problematic.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-excuses " file"
Write to this HTML file a detailed explanation of why some packages cannot
migrate. With the
.B \-\^\-svg
option, an SVG graph is also included for each installability or
co-installability issue (set of packages that one would not be able to
install together anymore) that prevents the migration. The
.B dot
tool is required to produce these graphs.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-explain " dir"
This command is designed to produce a report that can be published over
HTTP. An HTML file is created for each package that cannot
migrate, providing a detailed explanation of why this package cannot
migrate. A file listing
co-installability issues (that is, set of
packages that can no longer be installed together) that would result
from forthcoming migrations is also created. The
.B \-\^\-popcon
option can be used to specify popcon data to use for the report.
The
.B dot
tool is required for this command.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-migrate " package"
Compute whether it is possible to migrate this source package. If this
is indeed possible, a corresponding
.I Britney
hint is outputted, by default on the standard output (this can be
overridden with the
.B \-\^\-hints
option).

.TP
.B \-\^\-update
Initialize or update the data directory.

.SS Common Options

.TP
.BI \-\^\-arches " lst"
Comma-separated list of architectures to consider (default to all).

.TP
.BI \-c " file" "\fR,\fP \-\^\-config " file
Use this Britney configuration file.


.SS Package Migration Options

.TP
.B \-\^\-all-hints
Show all hints.  By default, hints consisting of a single package are
omitted when outputting hints.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-break " sets"
Override the default migration constraint that set of packages that
could be install together can still be installed together after
migration (package co-installability).  This option allows to specify
that some precise set of packages can become non co-installable (or,
in the case of a single package, that this package can become non
installable). This is crucial to allow the migration of packages that
are no longer compatible. The argument
.I sets
is a comma-separated list of sets of packages. Each set is either a
list of binary package names separated by a vertical bar symbol |, or
a wildcard\~_ standing for any package.
We explain this option through examples.
You can write
.BI \-\^\-break " libjpeg62-dev"
to state that package
.I libjpeg62-dev
does not have to remain installable.
But it is usually better to indicate that the package should remain
installable but that it is fine if it is no longer installable with
some other packages:
.B \-\^\-break
.IR libjpeg62-dev,_ .
You can be even more precise and specify that two given packages can
become incompatible, but no other incompatibility should be
introduced:
.B \-\^\-break
.IR parallel,moreutils .
Finally, you can use the vertical bar symbol to factorize several sets
of packages:
.B \-\^\-break
.I 'unoconv,python-uno|docvert-libreoffice'
means that package
.I unoconv
does not have to remain installable together with
.I python-uno
nor
.IR docvert-libreoffice .

.TP
.BI \-\^\-heidi " HeidiResult"
Write the result of package migration to file
.IR HeidiResult .
When
.I HeidiResult
is
.BR \- ,
write to standard output.
The option only make sense when no specific command is given.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-hints " file"
Output hints to this file. When
.I file
is
.BR \- ,
write to standard output.
This disable the ouput of the
.I HeidiResult
file, unless an explicit
.B \-\^\-heidi
option is provided as well.

.TP
.B \-\^\-inst
When computing possible migration, only preserves single package
installability. This is similar to what
.I Britney
does. The default is to ensure the stronger requirement that
set of packages that could be install together can still be installed
together after migration (that is, package co-installability).

.TP
.BI \-\^\-offset " n"
Move
.I n
days into the future. This is convenient to see what packages will be
able to migrate in a few days.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-remove " pkg"
Compute package migration as if the source package
.I pkg
and its associated binary packages had been removed from
.IR sid .
This is a convenient way to migrate an important package when its
migration is prevented by packages of low importance.
Together with the
.B \-\^\-migrate
command, this option can help finding out all issues preventing the
migration of a given package.

.SS Command-Specific Options

.TP
.B \-\^\-svg
Include conflict graphs (in SVG format) in excuse output. This option
only make sense together with the
.B \-\^\-excuses
option.

.TP
.BI \-\^\-popcon " file"
Use popcon data from this file. This option only make sense together
with the
.B \-\^\-explain
option.

.SS Miscellaneous Options
.TP
.BI \-\^\-debug " name"
Activate debug option
.IR name .
Use
.B \-\^\-debug help
to list available debug options.
.TP
.BR \-help ", " \-\^\-help
Print a usage message  briefly  summarizing  the command-line options.
.TP
.BI \-\^\-input " dir"
Select the directory containing Britney data.
.TP
.B \-\^\-no\-cache
Disable on-disk caching.
.TP
.BI \-\^\-proc  " n"
Provide number of processors.  Use 1 to disable concurrency.
Defaults to use all processors.

.SS Ignored Options
These two
.I Britney
options are currently ignored and are present only for compatibility.
.TP
.B \-\^\-control\-files
Currently ignored.
.TP
.B \-v
Currently ignored.

.SH EXAMPLES

To get started, you need to use a
.I Britney
configuration file
.IR britney.conf .
The files specifies is particular the location of migration data
(control files, hint files, ...). These data can then be downloaded
(or updated) with the command below.

   comigrate -c britney.conf --update

Running
.B comigrate
without option will make it behave like
.IR Britney :
it will compute the set of packages that can migrate
and write a corresponding
.I HeidiResult
file at the location indicated in the configuration file.

   comigrate -c britney.conf

By default,
.B comigrate
is more picky than
.IR Britney :
it will not allow packages to migrate if any set of packages that
could be installed together can no longer be installed together.
With the
.B --inst
option,
.B comigrate
will only check that packages remain installable, just like
.I Britney
does.

   comigrate -c britney.conf --inst

Alternatively, you can get the set of
.I Britney
easy hints corresponding to the migration.

   comigrate -c britney.conf --hints - --all-hints

The
.B --migrate
option will give you an explanation of why a package cannot migrate.
(If the package can in fact migrate, the corresponding easy hint will
be printed.)

   comigrate -c britney.conf --migrate ghc

The
.B --remove
and
.B --break
options can be used together with this option to get a clear
understand of what needs to be done to migrate the package.

.SH AUTHOR
Comigrate has been written by Jérôme Vouillon.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dot (1)
.br
The tool Web page:
.RB < http://coinst.irill.org/comigrate >.
